\mysection{Remote Memory Operations}
\label{section:policy}

We now discuss how hosts can use remote memory read and write operations to
analyze and control guest devices. 
\addtext{Task 2}{Our goal is to describe the power of remote memory operations
as an analysis and control API. The discussion below is therefore intentionally
broader than the features that we implemented in our prototype (a description
of which appears in \sectref{section:evaluation}).}

\myparagraph{Analysis of Guest Devices}
%
Hosts analyze memory snapshots of a guest's normal world kernel to determine
its configuration and scan it for kernel-level malware (also called
\textit{rootkits}).

\begin{mylist}
%
\item \emphitem{Retrieving configuration information.} 
\addtext{Task 2}{When a guest device first checks-in, the host must determine
the configuration of the device, so that it can suitably tailor further
analysis of the device. The host determines the kernel version by inspecting
code pages, thereby also allowing it to check if the guest has applied
recommended security patches. To ensure that the normal world is free of
malicious kernel code, the host compares a hash of each kernel code page
against a whitelist, \eg~of code pages in approved Android
distributions~\cite{patagonix:sec08,secvisor:sosp07}.  Additionally, the host
must ensure that the kernel is configured to disallow well-known attack
surfaces, \eg~access to \textsf{/dev/kmem} and dynamic module loading. Finally,
the host identifies addresses at which functions of a peripheral's driver are
loaded, where they are hooked into the kernel and the addresses that store
memory-mapped peripheral settings. To do so, it uses the recursive memory
snapshot traversal technique described below. The host uses this information to
design the set of memory updates that reconfigure the device to make it
policy-compliant.}
%
\item \emphitem{Detecting malicious data modifications.} Rootkits achieve
malicious goals by modifying key kernel data
structures~\cite{sbcfi:ccs07,shadows:oakland07,specmon:usenix06}.  The attack
surface exposed by kernel data structures is vast.  For instance, a rootkit
could inject a device driver in kernel memory and modify kernel function
pointers to invoke methods from this driver. Other examples of data structures
that can be misused include process lists, entropy pools used by the kernel's
random number generator, and access control
structures~\cite{shadows:oakland07,specmon:usenix06}.
%
\end{mylist}

We now describe a generic approach, developed in prior
work~\cite{sbcfi:ccs07,gib:tdsc11,kop:ccs09,kop:sec12,osck:asplos11}, that
hosts can use to detect such malicious data modifications by analyzing the
normal world's memory snapshot. The main idea is to recursively traverse the
memory snapshot and reconstruct a view of the kernel's data structures, and use
this view to reason about the integrity of kernel data. We assume that the host
has access to the type declarations of the data structures used by the guest
device's normal world kernel, \eg~the sizes, layouts, and fields of every data
structure. The host obtains this information from trusted repositories using
the kernel version, extracted as discussed earlier.

Snapshot traversal starts from well-known entrypoints into the system's memory,
\eg~the addresses of the entities in \textsf{System.map}. When the traversal
process encounters a pointer, it fetches the memory object referenced by the
pointer and recurses until all objects have been fetched.  
\addtext{Task 13}{This traversal process works even if the guest device uses
address-space layout randomization (ASLR) techniques to protect its normal
world, as is done on modern Android, iOS and Windows devices.}
Having reconstructed a view of kernel data structures, the host can then
determine whether they have been maliciously modified. For example, it could
check that function pointers in the kernel point to functions defined in the
kernel's code space~\cite{sbcfi:ccs07}. Similarly, the host can check that the
kernel's data structures satisfy invariants that typically hold in an
uncompromised kernel~\cite{gib:tdsc11}.  
\addtext{Task 2}{Prior research projects have explored in-depth the full power
of memory snapshot analysis for rootkit
detection~\cite{sbcfi:ccs07,gib:tdsc11,kop:ccs09,kop:sec12,osck:asplos11}.  We
do not further elaborate on these rootkit detection policies because they are
orthogonal to our focus. Our own prototype implementation only showcases a
simple rootkit detection policy that ensures the integrity of the normal
world's system call table. However, our design allows hosts to implement any of
the complex rootkit detection policies described in prior work.}

Analysis of memory snapshots is a powerful approach for hosts to obtain strong
assurances about guest devices. A rootkit-infected OS kernel can be reliably
diagnosed \textit{only by externally observing its code and data}, \eg~using
memory snapshots as already discussed. Prior techniques that enforce policies
on guest devices by using security-enhanced, policy-enforcing normal world
kernels
(\eg~\cite{asm:sec14,flaskdroid:sec13,conxsense:asiaccs14,worlddriven:ccs14,blindspot:2009,markit:upside14,knox:mdm,ms:intune,blackberry:emm})
can also benefit from our approach to establish normal world kernel integrity
to hosts. 
\addtext{Task 15}{Although recent work~\cite{cachekit:eurosp16} has explored
cache-only normal-world rootkits on ARM TrustZone devices (which do not leave a
memory footprint), the large majority of known rootkits operate by modifying
kernel memory and can be detected via memory snapshot analysis.}

We have restricted our discussion and our prototype implementation to analyzing
the normal world's kernel memory snapshot. In theory, it is possible for a host
to also request and analyze the normal world's user-space memory, \eg~for
malicious apps that reside in memory or on the file system.  However, in
practice, user-space memory may contain sensitive information stored in apps,
which guests may be unwilling to share with hosts. For example, guests can
configure their vetting service to mark as \textsc{Unsafe} host requests to
fetch user-space memory pages, as we do in our prototype (see
\sectref{section:vetting}). 

To ensure user-space security, hosts can leverage the normal world kernel after
establishing that it is benign, \eg~using the snapshot traversal methods
described above. The host can require the normal world kernel to execute a
mutually-agreed-upon anti-malware app in user-space. At check-in, the host
scans the process list in the device's kernel memory snapshot to ensure that an
anti-malware is executing. This app can check user-space memory and the
file-system for malicious activity. At check-out, it can ensure that the same
app is still executing by comparing its process identifier to the value
obtained at check-in,\footnote{The security of this scheme is based on the fact
that PIDs on UNIX systems are, for all practical purposes, unique on a given
system. For example, while they can be recycled, it requires a large counter to
wrap around.} thereby ensuring that the anti-malware app was active for the
duration of the guest's stay.

\myparagraph{Control over Guest Device Peripherals}
%
Hosts control the availability and configuration of peripherals on guest
devices via remote memory updates to the devices. After analyzing the guest's
memory snapshot, hosts prepare a set of memory updates to control various
peripherals on guest devices. These updates are used to simply uninstall
peripherals that may be misused violate the host's policies. Our overall
approach to controlling peripherals is to update peripheral device drivers. On
modern OSes, each peripheral has an interface within the kernel. This interface
consists of a set of function pointers that are normally set to point to the
corresponding functions within the peripheral's device driver, which
communicates with the peripheral. 

\begin{figure}[t!]
\begin{center}
\footnotesize
\begin{tabular}{|cc|}
\hline
\multicolumn{2}{|c|}{\indent\vspace{-0.2cm}}\\
\includegraphics[keepaspectratio=true,height=0.85in]{figures/driver-null.png} & 
\includegraphics[keepaspectratio=true,height=0.85in]{figures/driver-dummy.png}\\
\textbf{(a)~\textsc{null}ifying the interface} &
\textbf{(b)~Installing a dummy driver}\\
\multicolumn{2}{|p{0.47\textwidth}|}
{\small Each device driver exposes an interface and is linked to the kernel via
function pointers.  Part~(a) shows how to uninstall the peripheral by making
the kernel's device interface point to \textsc{null} bytes.  Part~(b) shows how
to uninstall the peripheral by unlinking the original driver and instead
linking a dummy driver.}\\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{center}
\indent\vspace{-0.7cm}
\mycaption{Uninstalling peripheral device drivers using remote write operations 
to kernel memory.}
{\label{figure:uninstall}}
\indent\vspace{-0.25cm}
\end{figure}

We adopted two broad strategies to update device drivers:  

\begin{mylist} 
%
\item \emphitem{Nullifying interfaces (\figref{figure:uninstall}(a)).} This
approach simply sets the function pointers in the peripheral's interface to
\textsc{null}. If the kernel checks these pointers prior to invoking the
functions, it will simply return an error code to the application saying that
the device is not installed. This approach has the advantage of only involving
simple writes to the kernel (\textsc{null} bytes to certain addresses), which
can easily be validated as safe if the guest so wishes. However, we found in
our evaluation (\sectref{section:evaluation}) that this approach can crash the
device if the kernel expects non-\textsc{null} pointers.
%
\item \emphitem{Dummy drivers (\figref{figure:uninstall}(b)).} In this approach,
the host writes a dummy driver for the peripheral and links it with the kernel
in place of the original driver. If the dummy driver simply return a suitable
error code rather than communicating with the peripheral, it has the effect of
uninstalling the peripheral. The error code is usually bubbled up to and
handled by user apps. Some apps may not be programmed to handle such errors, so
an alternative approach could be for the dummy driver to return synthetic
peripheral data instead of error codes~\cite{mockdroid:hotmobile10}. Dummy
drivers also offer fine-grained peripheral control. For example, with
3G/4G, it may be undesirable to simply uninstall the modem to disable voice
messaging because it also prevents the guest from making emergency calls. The
host can avoid this by designing a dummy driver that allows calls to emergency
numbers alone, while disabling others. In this approach, the host introduces
new driver code into the guest. From the guest's perspective, this code is
untrusted and must be safety-checked by the vetting service.

\end{mylist}

\addtext{Tasks 10\&11}{For the above approaches to be effective, the guest must
not have access to certain attack vectors that can be used to bypass the host's
memory updates. The onus of ensuring these attack vectors are precluded resides
with hosts, who must carefully design their policies to analyze guest device
memory snapshots. For example, the analysis must ensure that the 
\code{/dev/kmem} interface is not available to guests, that dynamic module
loading is disallowed, and that peripheral registers are not mapped into
user-space memory using the \code{mmap} interface. Likewise, the snapshot
analysis must carefully account for all the interfaces exported by peripheral
device drivers and aliases to the functions implemented in them to ensure that
an unlinked driver is no longer reachable from any paths in the normal world
kernel.}
