To usefully query a location-based service, a mobile device must typically
present its own location in its query to the server. This may not be acceptable
to clients that wish to protect the privacy of their location.  Much prior work
has addressed the problem of protecting client privacy in such location-based
queries using k-anonymity. In such schemes, the location-based server is unable
to distinguish a querying client from a group of k clients.

However, prior work on k-anonymity-based schemes has typically required the use
of a anonymizer---a server that intercepts and modifies client queries so as to
achieve k-anonymity. The centralized nature of anonymizers makes them a single
point of failure. Moreover, in the presence of mobile clients, anonymizers must
be implemented so as to avoid correlation attacks, where an adversary
compromises client location using that client's queries from multiple
locations.  Alternatives that eliminate the anonymizer either rely on the
participation of k other peers, thus making the system reliant on these peers,
or are based upon computationally-expensive cryptographic protocols that
present scalability problems. 

This paper presents the design and implementation of SybilQuery, a fully
decentralized and autonomous k-anonymity-based scheme to privately query
location-based services. SybilQuery is a client-side tool that generates k-1
Sybil queries for each query by the client. The location-based server is
presented with a set of k queries and is unable to distinguish between the
client's query and the Sybil queries, thereby achieving k-anonymity.  We tested
our implementation of SybilQuery on real mobility traces of approximately 500
cabs in the San Francisco Bay area. Our experiments show that SybilQuery can
efficiently generate Sybil queries and that these queries are indistinguishable
from real queries.  

